Now regarding the logic to add a project here,
first of all we have to accept the project here as an argument because we will be receiving it. In the
end, we're calling add project over a couple of corners in this line
and here we're passing a project to this function.
So since we effectively call add project there, we should accept the project here.
Now to add it in this list where this is getting called,
we can of course reach out to the projects array there and push project onto it.
Now that's the first step,
now we moved it in Javascript from the array in instance A to the array an instance B,
so from the array in active projects to the array in finished projects for example.
That's the first step but it's not the final step,
we also need to move the DOM node of course
and for that we could add the logic here
right in this method but actually I will create a new class also to demonstrate more examples for classes
of course and I'll name it helper or DOM helper because I want to outsource this DOM logic, in this
case into this class, with a static method which I'll name move element and move element should take
the element ID of the element that should be moved and the new destination selector let's say, so that
in move element we can reach out to the element and store it in a constant with document get element
by ID, passing in element ID and then get the destination element with document query selector
and pass in the new destination selector argument and then we can use the destination element and in
the end, append element and as you learned,
if you're doing this to a DOM node that's already part of the DOM and you're appending it again in
another place of the DOM, then it will not be copied or anything like that, it will be moved which is
exactly what I want here.
So with that, we should be moving that element and therefore now if we go down to add project, we can use
helper and then since we created a static method there, we can call move element and pass in project
ID which in the end is my element ID I want to move and the new destination selector, that can be
created with back ticks so that we can insert something dynamic there because in the end here, I want
to move this to a selector where we select that ID and then the dynamic thing is this type which is a
property of project list,
so for the active list, that's active, for the finished list, that's finished -projects ul, so I
want to select the unordered list in the section for the finished or the active projects and this should
move the DOM node.
So with that, we're almost there,
I just noticed of course it's not called helper but DOM helper
but now with that if we save that and we reload this page and I click on finish, we see cannot read property
ID of undefined.
So something's wrong with the project here because I'm getting this from line 48 as you can tell,
so this is this line,
so reading the ID here doesn't work.
So let's console log the project,
alternatively we could of course also use breakpoints to see what's inside of that thing and yes, it's
undefined. So we're not getting our parameter,
that's the issue here.
Now let's find out why that could be the case because here where I call switch handler which in the
end due to our set up should be pointing at add project, there I am passing in a project,
so unless this selection fails here, we should be forwarding a project. Well to find out whether that
fails, we can quickly console log our selection logic here and see if that gives us an item.
So if you click this, OK we get undefined here already,
so selecting a project in the projects array like that, that fails. Let's see if we don't get a project
ID, that probably is the reason,
so if we reload,
yes
instead this points at some strange mouse event object, let's ignore that for the moment.
So indeed the problem here is that we got no ID.
So if we have a look at where we call switch project, it's here and there we bind this and we pass switch
project to project item and here in project item where we then accept this
and there we store it in the update projects list handler in the end, there I assign this to this event
listener
and here we probably have our problem because here, I'm not passing in the ID of the project and we
should be doing this.
So I should bind this here, we don't need to pass in a value for this,
we can use null here but I want to pass in my argument that should be forwarded and that should be this
ID,
the ID of this project this is getting triggered on, so that the ID in the end ends up here in switch project
and that therefore allows us to select a project and pass it to add project.
So now with that, let's give it a try, let's save this and it worked,
you see we moved it down there. Now a couple of things are not working yet though,
for example the button text is not updated and in addition if we click the button again, we now have
a problem.
The reason for that problem is that we move the DOM element but we didn't really fully update the lists
or the item correctly to reflect that the item now is part of a different list.
Right now what we're doing is we're making sure we can click that switch button but once we switched
the item one time,
so once we switch it to the other box once, when we try to switch it again, we get an error and it doesn't
work
and of course as I said, the button caption also isn't updated.
Now that error is stemming from the fact that we haven't for example updated the event listener on the
button, it's still the same event listener
we set it to the button on the project item initially when we created that project item.
Now therefore, it's still the same event listener for the list it was in originally,
so if it started in the active projects, it still has the event listener to switch it from active projects
to finished even though the switch just happened.
So what we'll need to do is we need to make sure that when we switch a project, we also update that project
to change the button caption and to add a new event listener.
We probably should do this here in add project,
there we can reach out to the project which we're getting as an argument and we could call an update
method in there which doesn't exist yet but which we can create and to this update method, we should also
probably pass our new switch handler
that should be used because we pass one in when we create the project,
we point at this switch project bind this, we should renew this in add project and pass it to update so
that we can use it in there because when we add a project, that means it switch the lists, it switch
from instance A to instance B and therefore this function to which this project is bound in the end
has to be changed because that still points at the old instance, at instance A, the project now is an instance
B though
so we have to pass in this switch project as it is defined in instance B
otherwise we don't work with the right function that should be called upon a click.
I also want to pass in this type here to let the project know in the update method which we have to
add, in which type of list it is, the active or the finished list,
this will be important for updating the caption off the button. So with that, let's go to project item and
in there, we can add a new method and name it update because that's the name I gave it a couple of lines
below and there, we need to accept two things -
the update project lists function,
the new one and the type.
Now here in the update method, I want to set this update project list handler,
so just as I'm doing it here in the constructor, equal to update project lists function so that we have
a new function there that's getting used and not the old one.
Now of course we now also need to add the event listener again and therefore I'll call this connect
switch button one more time so that this code runs again and we basically use the new update project
list handler which we set here to set our new event listener.
Now this alone would not work correctly though, if we do that, click on finish, you'll see it works kind
of, it moves it back but we get an error and we actually set up a memory leak here because I'm running
connect switch button again but we'd never cleared the old event listener there,
we added a new one but the old one also still exists.
So we need to get rid of the old event listener first and
for that I'll go back to my DOM helper class here and add a new static method here which I'll name
clear event listeners for an element because such a functionality is not built into Javascript and here,
I'll create a new or a cloned element by using element clone node true to make a deep clone and then
replace the element with replace with, with the cloned element.
So we basically replace the element with itself but since we cloned it and create a brand new one, we
ditch any existing event listeners and they can be garbage collected,
then here I return a cloned element.
So this is a little helper function which in the end swaps the element
and now we can call that from inside
connect switch button in the end because there instead of selecting switch button with a constant, I'll
use a variable
and thereafter always call DOM helper clear event listeners for the switch button and set switch
button equal to the newly returned element this helper function returns.
So this always clears any existing event listeners and makes sure we only add a new one thereafter
and we don't accumulate event listeners over time. So now with now that if we reload, this swapping works without
errors.
Now what's not working is our caption here or it's working but it's not updated correctly.
Well to update it, here in connect switch button,
besides adding the event listener, we can also set switch button text content equal to and then maybe
expect a type here, that we receive a type which helps us find out to what we want to set it, so that
we check if type is equal to active,
if that's the case, then I want to set the label to finish because if we are in the active list, the button
should say finished, to move it to the finished list and otherwise say activate. So that's a change I want to
add here,
now of course that means we need to make sure that type is passed in. It's no problem here in update
because there we get type,
we can just forward that but in the constructor, we at the moment don't know the type,
so here we should also expect to get this as an argument and forward it to connect switch button and in order
to get it as an argument here in the project item constructor,
we can go to project list where we build a project item and there, pass in as a third argument, this
type because here we know in which type of list we are. Now with that
now, if we save that, we can move our items here and the label is also updated.
So now that's this move item from A to B logic finished,
let's now focus on the more info button, though for now this will be relatively trivial because we'll
just output something in the console.